
+++
title = 'Weekly Dev Update 4'
date = 2024-06-13
draft = true 
+++

#

## ASCII Game Dev

## Professional API Research

## First DevOps Meetup
This week was the first week that I have been an organizer for a local tech meetup! It feels crazy rewarding to see a bunch of people come together, mayhaps in small part, because of you. It's a great way to meet some great people, who come from who-knows-what walk of life. Great chance to learn, and see what other people and companies find important across your area. I still have no clue how all of these amazing, and fun, opportunities keep falling in my lap

## Improving the Blog

## Acheivements on my LinkedIn

This week I smashed my known previous ath for weekly impressions & engagements. About a year ago, I was graduating from tech Elevator, and getting a job. I had managed to creep over 2k impressions, however, after a long 10 months since then, I managed to push over 2500 impressions this week. These were 2 very different phases that led to the personal records in my networking. In Tech Elevator, much of my momentum was fueled by my desperation to become employed. Another part of it was sitting in a room with close to 100 people every day. I had a more tightly knit pool to draw from the well.

Where I am now, much of the momentum comes from pushing my blog posts, pushing projects I am working on, pushing my enthusiasm for others as well. Some of my biggest posts of all time were me waxing on my appreciation for my enchanting wife, and pushing to help other people get the word out about what they have going on. I feel like this record was broken via very hard work

## Exhaustion

I have a lot of reasons to feel burnt out. I program for work all day. I have been sitting in an hour of traffic to and fro work during the in-office days. I just finished being the best man at a wedding. Conferences. This blog. Personal projects when I go home too. Being the best dad I can be, crushing records on my LinkedIn, trying to be a better husband every day. Planning new projects. Planning to begin streaming on twitch... I have a free pass to crash and burn, and no one would blame me. I could veg out, dissapear, sleep more than 5 hours a night. 

The truth is? I've tried. I don't know why, but fiction books, videogames, working out, all of these things I can do for very short periods of time, but I haven't been able to shake off programming for over 2 years as my primary obsession/hobby. I was discussing this with a friend, and he admitted he has had a similar conviction on anything-programming for a long time. Something about the process of crafting solutions from very flexible, abstract problems, engages the creative part of my brain. Once, I could sit around and write a novel for 12-16 hours a day if my schedule allowed. I worked to come home and devote myself to writing. Somehow, programming has become that method of creativity. When I'm programming, I feel a profound sense of joy in the midst of suffering through technical frustrations. I can be swearing into my debugger, but as soon as I walk away, I realize that anger is a competative feeling. I feel challenged, I feel like I need to grow to overcome the problem. Better yet, there's never been a bug I haven't been able to wrap my head around eventually.